1.How Do You Set Up a Basic Ansible Playbook to Install a Package On a Group Of Servers?


2.What Command Will You Use To Run An Ansible Playbook With a Specific Inventory File?

ansible-playbook -i "\Users\navee\Downloads\Phone Link" your_playbook.yml

3.What Is The Ad-hoc Command In Ansible, And When Is It Typically Used?

It is one line command excuited from the anasible control node to perform quick one time taks. 

4.List Ansible’s advantages

Agentless,Simple and Human-Readable,Powerful and Flexible,Idempotent,Large Community and Module Library

5.What are CD and CI, and what is Ansible’s relationship with them?

Integrate Ansible with CI/CD pipelines to automate testing and deployment.

6.Describe how Ansible works.

Ansible works by connecting to your nodes (servers) from a central control node (where Ansible is installed) and pushing out small programs called "Ansible Modules."

7.Explain what a “playbook” is.

It is an core componens of ansible and where it define the automations task.it is written yaml format.

8. How do you set up Ansible?

firt: create 3 or more ubentu server in that select one as control node. and remeaning server is nodes
second: on the 3 server update and intsall python2 server 
third: to install pip in all 3 server
fourth: now install curl on 3 server 
fifth: do the ssh connection for the server
sixth: in the control node intsall the ansible  

9.Explain the difference between a playbook and a play.

playbook:Ansible uses YAML files called playbooks to define tasks, configurations, and orchestrations. This makes it easy to read and write.

play:It is the execution of the playbook.

10. What exactly is a configuration management tool?



11.What is a YAML file and how do we use it in Ansible?

it is a human readable file its is used for configuration files.Ansible uses YAML to define everything from playbooks and variable files to inventory.

13. What are Ansible Modules?

14. What are Ansible tasks?

Ansible task is a section which consists of a single procedure to be completed

15.can u create a Task at node server machines , where user is insalled with git and cloned with b
remote repository , with gi configuration ?

16.explain role of prometheus and grafana ?

Prometheus collects rich metrics and provides a powerful querying language
Grafana transforms metrics into meaningful visualizations
